alright let's talk about Apple silicon I
wanted to shoot this video like two
three days ago right after WWDC I had
all these reactionary thoughts I wanted
to share with you guys but then I was i
sat on it as I let it simmer in my brain
I realized that this was this was big
this was much bigger than I'd originally
thought
not just for Apple not just for tech
enthusiasts like you and I but for just
the entire computing industry I think
this is going to be it's going to be
something big okay so just to explain in
the one sentence what is Apple Silicon
Apple has the two-year plan to
transition their computing hardware like
their laptops and desktops away from
Intel chips to their own custom in-house
made silicon kind of like their iPads
and iPhones so I'm going to start off
this conversation with a topic of
hardware so Apple didn't announce any
retail or consumer grade hardware at
WWDC right they did announce this
developer transition kit it's this Mac
Mini enclosure equipped with the a 12 z
chip from the iPad pro and it's device
that they did most of the Big Sur demos
from during their presentation it's a
$500 kit but it's a rental right you use
it as a tool for whatever development
purposes that you have and then when
it's done you send it back to Apple very
similar to the developers transition kit
they had a few years ago now this is not
a consumer grade product it was meant to
it was meant to basically showcase to
developers and the world what their path
was going forward with these new
processors it's not to be used as some
kind of like benchmark or guidance as to
what their upcoming consumer grade
products are like not at all like that a
12z is a powerful chip but that hardware
was put out by Apple as something quick
and inexpensive for developers to get
onboard to this whole transition process
the real hardware that is coming out is
rumored to be either a 13-inch MacBook
device or a 24 inch iMac device and
these are slated to come out at the end
of this year or early next year but in
either of these cases the processors
that are in these devices that are
coming out for consumer level
consumption are invariably going to be
more capable and more powerful than the
a 12z that's in that
Birkett like for sure now there is
something to be taken away from this
developer transition kit and it's the
price tag so $500 is a lot cheaper than
the thousand dollars that they had for
the old developer transition kit when
they went from PowerPC to Intel and it
makes you think why is it so cheap why
is it half the price of the older
granted things are different now right
Apple is now in a position where there's
so many more developers around the world
that are making apps and things for the
Apple ecosystem so maybe they wanted to
be as inclusive as possible make this
kit available to as many people as
possible and there's also the other
consideration where Apple is a company
now where they're trying to encourage
everybody to just get into development
so again it's like you know try to get
more people onto this thing but I think
a big part of it is the cost of the
components when they had the old
developer transition kit they had to use
an Intel chip and we've talked about
those four in previous videos Intel
stuff is expensive like you just can't
get away from the price point of Intel's
chips you put one of their chips and
your products you got to pay up but this
time inside that Mac Mini enclosure is
an 8 12 Z it's something that they put
in their iPad pros it's something they
have tons of and they're inexpensive to
make and I think we're starting to see
the benefits one of the benefits of what
ARM based chips can do it's you you have
cheaper stuff now I hope I hope right
that it's going to be cheap for the
consumers it's clearly less expensive
for Apple to produce a ARM based Mac
Mini than an Intel based Mac Mini right
100% sure it's cheaper to make this dtk
than the Intel based thing that they
sell to consumers right now but I I just
feel like they're gonna make it cheaper
for consumers I just have this gut
feeling it's so uh napple and it's you
know I've seen it in the comments I've
suggested this before and everyone
laughs at this idea because Apple is
just gonna rip people off if that's what
everyone thinks well that's a lot of
people think but what if they made it
cheaper because they can right it'd be
pretty sick and if you look at some of
the cost breakdown of Apple's products
that use custom silicone right now those
chips aren't super expensive at least
not in comparison to Intel stuff ok I
want to move this conversation to
software particularly about the software
that they have
to use to do this whole transition
process now before WWDC there was a lot
of concern from articles and comments
that were written about like the
difficulty the obstacle of how hard is
it going to be for Apple to transition
both their developers and their user
base to this new ARM based product and
here's the thing about transitions when
it comes to moving between platforms
like this the definition of a successful
or proper transition is if the user
can't even tell that they've made the
transition right for you and I as
enthusiasts we want to see how this is
working and we want to understand the
nuance of all this stuff but for the
average user they want this to be as
invisible as possible like you used the
old Intel based Apple product one day
you're using it and then the next day
you switch over to this Apple
silicon-based one and there should be no
difference your programs your apps
everything should just be exactly the
way it was from your old one and that
would be the dream that's what Apple
wants and that's what the user base
wants and I actually think apples gonna
pull this off because if you look at
their tech demos they have two tools to
make this happen
their new Xcode will to build binaries
that can run on both platforms at the
same time so you can have one file that
runs both on Intel products and Apple
silicon products but the most impressive
one to me was their demo of Rosetta - so
this is a tool that allows you to use
regular Intel binaries like stuff that's
made for the old old but stuff that's
made for existing Apple products
download that thing and then run it on a
device that uses Apple silicon now the
example that they use like the demo that
they did during the event was a game and
people looked at this demo the wrong way
when I see the comments about this like
people just missed the point of it that
game is old and the graphics are very
unimpressive but it's not a gaming
benchmark they're not even trying to
showcase Hardware here they're trying to
showcase the software the whole idea is
that you can take a program or a game
that was built for an Intel system run
it through Rosetta - and it'll still run
like without alteration of the code
it'll still run in a very viable form
now that being said I do have some
concerns about
and graphics dependent apps running on
Apple silicon during the event they
showcased Maya but that scene was
preloaded and they didn't do any edits
that would tax the CPU or GPU very much
it's cool that it runs but I really like
to see more and then when it comes to
Windows apps and games
there's no boot camp there's no way to
directly boot into Windows and I think
for a lot of people that use their Apple
systems to play games like that's like
the that's a very common way for people
to play Windows games on Apple systems
right now you can do through
virtualization and stuff down the line
but we'll see how that pans out the big
thing though is that there's no discrete
GPU all of the graphical performance
from these apple silicon based systems I
think they have to come from that from
the chip the a 14-8 13 a 15 whatever it
is that's the only thing that can
provide the graphics for these systems
now if you look at Apple's kind of
graphical progress over the years
they've made some big strides and what
they've been able to do with graphics on
the iPads and their iPhones
it's impressive for tablets and phones
but when you compare that stuff to what
we have available from like AMD and
NVIDIA there's just no comparison I
think there's gonna be some pressure on
Apple to deliver something that is
competitive in the graphical Department
like I think their CPU stuff is that's
fine I think they have that covered it's
just the GPU not that everyone needs
graphics capabilities but for the people
that do they need to step it up and who
knows maybe by the end of the year we're
gonna see some really impressive GPU
capabilities coming from those new a14
base stuff who knows I actually think
that because they can cool these things
actively like we can throw fans on these
devices like for their laptops and
desktops it'll help a lot in terms of
what they're capable of but yeah I'm
excited
I am definitely excited to see what
Apple does not just like this year next
year but like what does it look at the
two year transition line what does that
look like like you know Apple they
already have all this stuff planned out
they know the devices and the chip so
they can be placing out for the next two
years they know exactly what they're
gonna do but what does that look like
what does the end stage look like
and yeah I'm glad that we're able to see
this okay hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
something you loved it I'll see you guys
next time
[Music]